Well now that we've looked at one way of cutting into an object let's take a look at another way.
Actually before I do that I'm just going to take this edge here and maybe scale it down so it fits within
the range of this cockpit glass here.
So one of the things you can do to hide away everything except the object you want to work on is you
can press shift H.
And that will hide away everything but the selected object.
Now I'm going to go into edit mode by hitting the tab key and now going to choose Allt and select an
edge and that will select a continuous edge here so press shift and Allt to continue that edge.
So now that I have that edge selected I'm going to press the ESC key and just scale it down just a bit.
Now I can press alt H back in Object mode and bring that piece back in.
Let's look at another way to create a circular inset into an object.
So what I'm going to do is work on the arms here.
What I want is I want an arm joint coming out of this portion of the model here.
So I'm going to tab into edit mode and press control tab to go into face select mode and I'll select
these four faces.
This is where I'd like that arm joint to come out of.
So I'm going to press the x key to delete these and choose faces.
And now what I need to do is somehow insert a circular piece into this so that I can extrude a round
part out of a squared off base so to do that what I'm going to do is create a cylinder that matches
the number of sides I have here.
And if I go into edge mode right here I can see that I have if I press alt and select an edge and then
come up here two edges I can see that I have eight edges selected out of the 506 edges that are in that
object.
So what I need is a cylinder with eight sides that I can use to frame out that round piece that I want
to extrude.
So to do that I'm going to tab back into object mode.
De-select everything by hitting the a key.
And I'm going to come over here to the Create tab and create a cylinder and when I do I get this panel
down here on the bottom left hand part of the screen.
And what this will allow me to do is adjust the settings of this cylinder now going to press the Z key
so we can go to wireframe and see it in here.
Now what I want is eight sides to this cylinder so when I'm in here type in eight and I also need the
top of the cylinder to have a triangle fan so I'm going to choose the triangle fan under the cap Phil
type.
And now if I hit the Z key to go back to the shaded view I can move this cylinder out and we can take
a look at it.
If I would have moved it out before I tried to change the settings I would have lost the ability to
change those.
So you have to adjust those properties before you do any editing or moving to the object.
So now that I have my cylinder I'm going to hit tab to go into edit mode and I'm going to hit control
tab in the three key to go to face mode and what I want now is just these eight faces.
I don't need the rest of the cylinder so I'll hit a to de-selected go to Z to go to all wireframe and
to select all of these faces down here I'm going to press the Beaky for border select and click and
drag.
And now I've selected all of those faces.
I can hit X and choose faces.
Now this top of the cylinder will act as a round template for extruding or cutting a round piece out
of the body.
So let me show you what I mean here.
I'm going to tab back into object mode and sense the pivot point is away from this object.
I need to move that pivot point back to the center of this object to do that I'll go back to the Tools
tab and here this set origin pull down menu.
I can say set origin to the geometry and that will pop the pivot point or the origin back into the center
of the object.
Now I want to move this to that hole.
So how to do that quickly and precisely.
I mean I could move this and move it here and then and go to rotate to and rotate it.
Things like that.
But that's not real efficient.
It'll work.
But let me show you another way here so I can tab into edit mode.
And I need to go to edge select mode.
So I'm in a press control tab and slight edge and I'm just going to make sure I'm going to press alt
and select an edge just to reast select those edges.
Now I'm going to press shift s and choose cursor to selected and that will move that cursor right there
in the center of those edges.
Now if I tab back to object mode select this object I can choose to shift s selection to cursor and
that will pop that object to the point of the cursor.
That's a lot easier and more precise.
So I'm going to now hit the s key and scale this down.
So I get that circle in the center of that hole.
All right.
So now what.
Well I need to connect these two so that I can use this to extrude out and to connect these two.
I'm going to need to combine these two objects.
So to do that I need to select both objects.
Select one shift select the other and now I'm going to press control J.
Which is the shortcut key for joining objects.
Now if I tab into edit mode you can see they both go into edit mode because they're all one object.
There are two different pieces of the same object.
So now if I select this edge and hit the e key to extrude and then click with the left mouse button.
Now if I hit the s key and scale in just a bit I can bring that in just a little.
I don't need it a whole lot just a little.
Because these are the points now that I'm going to connect to this round part.
So I think before I do that I'm going to bring that out a smidge I'm going to select this whole piece
with the L key L for select linked and I'll move this out just a bit.
So it lines up with those edges.
And maybe even rotate it some.
All right.
So I think I'm about ready to connect him up.
So now I'm going to go to Virtex mode and what I want to do is connect these vertices into the round
part.
I don't want to connect them out because that would form the round shape I'm trying to get.
So I'm going to select this one and then shift select this one and then press alt m to get the merge
menu and choose at last.
So now I can just choose each one of these alt him at last and keep going on around
and then we have it.
We now have a round hole in an object full of square polygons.
So what this allows us to do is to select these faces to quickly select them I'm going to press the
C key and I can scroll the mouse wheel to adjust the size of the selection.
Brush here.
I'm just going to click and drag to select those.
All right click to get out of the circle select tool and now I've got these faces selected so I can
extrude them out.
So let's do that I'm going to hit the e key for extrude.
I'm going to move the mouse out.
A bit like that.
Now I'm thinking that this piece where the joint is going to go is going to be flared out.
Something hit the s key scale out a bit.
And I think what I'd also like to do then is go to the rotate tool and click and drag.
So it's angled like this yeah something like that.
So this is where around the joint is going to go.
That's the shoulder of our arm.
So in the next video we'll begin working on the shoulder joint and the arm as well.